Setting a data infrastructure is cost and time intensive.
It is important to consider the strategic pieces while making those choices.
In this section, we will explore this aspect of making data strategic decisions.
There are various aspects of a business.
It may not always be wise to build solution for every problem you have in-house.
To put it differently,
the ending shop that is going online,
what should be their core competency and focus?
Should they build an accounting software in-house to maintain their books?
When you should build and when you should buy is a strategic decision.
Amazon is fundamentally e-commerce company but it focuses on being a tech leader.
It has invested heavily in hiring the right talent
and establishing infrastructure to develop some of the technologies in-house.
This has given them a competitive advantage over their competitors.
Amazon was able to spin out
a completely new and very profitable business because of this AWS.
Uber, another tech leader and innovator,
has also invested heavily in talent and infrastructure.
But at some point they realized,
they should not waste their resources in solving
problems that others have already solved.
They don't need to be an expert on everything.
Also not working with partners slowed their growth.
When should you build?
When time commitments are critical and vendors are not able to honor that.
You should build if total cost of building,
including development cost, testing,
configuration, scaling along with talent,
and infrastructure, is much lower.
You might be better of building
the solution if deep understanding of your business is needed.
You should also build when cost of customization are huge.
It is always best to build your application if there
is strategic importance associated with it.
When should you buy?
If it'll take you too long to build.
When overall cost, which is licensing, implementation, integration,
customization along with support,
and infrastructure, are much lower.
It is always good to buy market available solution for
problems that are common across enterprises, example HR solutions.
Some of the problems have already been solved
and there are market leaders available with solutions.
It's wise to buy such tech, for example,
buying cloud storage on AWS or on Azure would be better than building it.
Buying some of the tech solutions helps you scale
quicker and reduces your speed to market.